README.md, before:

# SingStar PS3 Custom Disc Builder (SSPCDB)

<img width="250" height="250" alt="spcdb_icon" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3164f633-f91f-4b11-b0fd-d611cf9ae254" />


**SSPCDB** builds a custom SingStar PS3 disc folder by selecting songs from a **Base** disc plus one or more **Source** discs.

- **Version:** 1.0.1
- **1.0.1 change:** Retail-compatible XML output (LF-only, keep xmlns:ss, stable formatting)
- **License:** GPL-3.0
- **Code + docs only:** this repo does **not** include any copyrighted game content.

## Quick start (Windows)

1. Install Python (**3.11+** recommended).
2. In the repo folder:

```bat
py -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install -U pip
.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install -r requirements.txt

REM If you're in PowerShell, use: .\run_gui.bat
run_gui.bat
```

> Tip: you can also run the GUI via `python -m spcdb_tool gui`.

## Documentation

- **User Guide (HTML, best local reading):** `docs/USER_GUIDE.html` (open in any web browser; includes a Dark/Light toggle)
- **User Guide (Markdown, best for GitHub):** `docs/USER_GUIDE.md`

## Important notes

- **Disc format:** SSPCDB expects **decrypted disc folders** (a folder containing `PS3_GAME/`). ISO images are **not supported directly** — extract/decrypt the ISO to a folder first. If you already have an extracted disc folder, you do **not** need the external extractor.
- **Real hardware requirement:** install **SingStar Update 6.00** on the PS3 before using a custom disc.
- **Recommended Base disc (tested):** SingStar **BCES00011**.
- **Avoid as Base:** SingStar MegaHits and SingStar: Ultimate Party (their latest official update is **v01.10**, not **v06.00**). They are fine as **Source** discs.

## External extractor (not bundled)

If you have packed discs (with `Pack*.pkd`), you can extract them using **Edness's “SCEE London Studio PS3 PACKAGE tool”** (external dependency; not bundled here).

Setup instructions are in the **User Guide** (see the “Extractor setup” section).

## Credits

- **Edness** (https://bsky.app/profile/edness.bsky.social) - SCEE London Studio PS3 PACKAGE tool (external extractor) (https://github.com/EdnessP/scee-london/)
- **AltEvolutions** - SSPCDB (https://bsky.app/profile/altevolutions.uk) / https://github.com/AltEvolutions

## Trademark & affiliation notice

SingStar and PlayStation are trademarks of their respective owners. This project is not affiliated with or endorsed by Sony.

Commit message:

Revise GUI run instructions and added details
Updated instructions for running the GUI and added extra details.

README.md, after:

# SingStar PS3 Custom Disc Builder (SSPCDB)

<img width="250" height="250" alt="spcdb_icon" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3164f633-f91f-4b11-b0fd-d611cf9ae254" />


**SSPCDB** builds a custom SingStar PS3 disc folder by selecting songs from a **Base** disc plus one or more **Source** discs.

- **Version:** 1.0.1
- **1.0.1 change:** Retail-compatible XML output (LF-only, keep xmlns:ss, stable formatting)
- **License:** GPL-3.0
- **Code + docs only:** this repo does **not** include any copyrighted game content.

## Quick start (Windows)

1. Install Python (**3.11+** recommended).
2. In the repo folder:

```bat
py -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install -U pip
.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install -r requirements.txt

run_gui.bat (or .sh/.py)
```

> Tip: you can also run the GUI via `python -m spcdb_tool gui`.

## Documentation

- **User Guide (HTML, best local reading):** `docs/USER_GUIDE.html` (open in any web browser; includes a Dark/Light toggle)

## Important notes

- **Disc format:** SSPCDB expects **decrypted disc folders** (a folder containing `PS3_GAME/`). ISO images are **not supported directly** — extract/decrypt the ISO to a folder first. If you already have an extracted disc folder, you do **not** need the external extractor.
- **Real hardware requirement:** install **SingStar Update 6.00** on the PS3 before using a custom disc.
- **Recommended Base disc (tested):** SingStar **BCES00011**.
- **Avoid as Base:** SingStar MegaHits and SingStar: Ultimate Party (their latest official update is **v01.10**, not **v06.00**). They are fine as **Source** discs.

## External extractor (not bundled)

If you have packed discs (with `Pack*.pkd`), you can extract them using **Edness's “SCEE London Studio PS3 PACKAGE tool”** (external dependency; not bundled here).

Setup instructions are in the **User Guide** (see the “Extractor setup” section).

## Credits

- **Edness** (https://bsky.app/profile/edness.bsky.social) - SCEE London Studio PS3 PACKAGE tool (external extractor) (https://github.com/EdnessP/scee-london/)
- **AltEvolutions** - SSPCDB (https://bsky.app/profile/altevolutions.uk) / https://github.com/AltEvolutions
- This was coded via ChatGPT over the course of a month and a half. I tested everything as much as I physically can at each stage to the best of my abilities.

## Trademark & affiliation notice

SingStar and PlayStation are trademarks of their respective owners. This project is not affiliated with or endorsed by Sony.

### Extra Details

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
